README.rst, before:

.. image:: https://secure.travis-ci.org/stephenmcd/hot-redis.png?branch=master
   :target: http://travis-ci.org/stephenmcd/hot-redis

Created by `Stephen McDonald <http://twitter.com/stephen_mcd>`_

Introduction
============

HOT Redis is a wrapper library for the `redis-py`_ client. Rather than calling the `Redis`_ commands directly from a client library, HOT Redis provides a wide range of data types that mimic many of the built-in data types provided by Python, such as lists, dicts, sets, and more, as well as many of the classes found throughout the standard library, such as those found in the Queue, threading, and collections modules.

These types are then backed by Redis, allowing objects to be manipulated atomically over the network - the atomic nature of the methods implemented on objects in HOT Redis is one of its core features, and many of these are backed by `Lua`_ code executed within Redis, which ensures atomic operations where applicable.

The name HOT Redis originally stood for "Higher Order Types for Redis", but since the implementation doesn't strictly fit the definition, the recursive acronym "HOT Object Toolkit for Redis" should appease the most luscious of bearded necks.

HOT Redis was drawn from the infrastructure behind the `kouio RSS reader`_, a popular alternative to Google Reader.


Installation
============

The easiest way to install ``hot-redis`` is directly
from PyPi using `pip`_ by running the following command::

    $ pip install -U hot-redis

Otherwise you can download and install it directly from source::

    $ python setup.py install


Usage
=====

Each of the types provided by HOT Redis strive to implement the same method signatures and return values as their Python built-in and standard library counterparts. The main difference is each type's ``__init__`` method. Every HOT Redis type's ``__init__`` method will optionally accept ``initial`` and ``key`` keyword arguments, which are used for defining an initial value to be stored in Redis for the object, and the key that should be used, respectively. If no key is provided, a key will be generated, which can then be accessed via the ``key`` attribute::

    >>> from hot_redis import List
    >>> my_list = List()
    >>> my_list.key
    '93366bdb-90b2-4226-a52a-556f678af40e'
    >>> my_list_with_key = List(key="foo")
    >>> my_list_with_key.key
    'foo'

Once you've determined a strategy for naming keys, you can then create HOT Redis objects and interact with them over the network, for example here is a ``List`` created on a computer we'll refer to as computer A::

    >>> list_on_computer_a = List(key="foo", initial=["a", "b", "c"])

then on another computer we'll creatively refer to as computer B::

    >>> list_on_computer_b = List(key="foo")
    >>> list_on_computer_b[:]  # Performs: LRANGE foo 0 -1
    ['a', 'b', 'c']
    >>> list_on_computer_b += ['d', 'e', 'f']  # Performs: RPUSH foo d e f

and back to computer A::

    >>> list_on_computer_a[:]  # Performs: LRANGE foo 0 -1
    ['a', 'b', 'c', 'd', 'e', 'f']
    >>> 'c' in list_on_computer_a  # Works like Python lists where expected
    True
    >>> list_on_computer_a.reverse()
    >>> list_on_computer_a[:]
    ['f', 'e', 'd', 'c', 'b', 'a']

The last interaction here is an interesting one. Python's ``list.reverse()`` is an in-place reversal of the list, that is, it modifies the existing list, rather than returning a reversed copy. If we were to implement this naively, we would first read the list from Redis, reverse it locally, then store the reversed list back in Redis again. But what if another client were to modify the list at approximately the same time? One computer's modification to the list would certainly overwrite the other's. In this scenario, and *many* others, HOT Redis provides its own Lua routine specifically for reversing the list in-place, within Redis atomically. I wrote in more detail about this in a blog post, `Bitwise Lua Operations in Redis`_.

Data Types
==========

The following table is the complete list of types provided by HOT Redis, mapped to their Python counterparts and underlying Redis types, along with any special considerations worth noting.

==================  ============================  ==========  ===============
HOT Redis           Python                        Redis       Notes
==================  ============================  ==========  ===============
List                list                          list
Set                 set                           set
Dict                dict                          hash
String              string                        string      Mutable - string methods that normally create a new string object in Python will mutate the string stored in Redis
ImmutableString     string                        string      Immutable - behaves like a regular Python string
Int                 int                           int
Float               float                         float
Queue               Queue.Queue                   list
LifoQueue           Queue.LifoQueue               list
SetQueue            N/A                           list + set  Extension of ``Queue`` with unique members
LifoSetQueue        N/A                           list + set  Extension of ``LifoQueue`` with unique members
BoundedSemaphore    threading.BoundedSemaphore    list        Extension of ``Queue`` leveraging Redis' blocking list pop operations with timeouts, while using Queue's ``maxsize`` arg to provide BoundedSemaphore's ``value`` arg
Semaphore           threading.Semaphore           list        Extension of ``BoundedSemaphore`` without a queue size
Lock                threading.Lock                list        Extension of ``BoundedSemaphore`` with a queue size of 1
RLock               threading.RLock               list        Extension of ``Lock`` allowing multiple ``acquire`` calls
DefaultDict         collections.DefaultDict       hash
MultiSet            collections.Counter           hash
==================  ============================  ==========  ===============

.. _`redis-py`: https://github.com/andymccurdy/redis-py
.. _`Redis`: http://redis.io
.. _`Lua`: http://www.lua.org/
.. _`kouio RSS reader`: https://kouio.com
.. _`pip`: http://www.pip-installer.org/
.. _`Bitwise Lua Operations in Redis`: http://blog.jupo.org/2013/06/12/bitwise-lua-operations-in-redis/

Commit message:

Added support for using a Redis instance running on a non-default port, on another host, or another database number.

README.rst, after:

.. image:: https://secure.travis-ci.org/stephenmcd/hot-redis.png?branch=master
   :target: http://travis-ci.org/stephenmcd/hot-redis

Created by `Stephen McDonald <http://twitter.com/stephen_mcd>`_

Introduction
============

HOT Redis is a wrapper library for the `redis-py`_ client. Rather than calling the `Redis`_ commands directly from a client library, HOT Redis provides a wide range of data types that mimic many of the built-in data types provided by Python, such as lists, dicts, sets, and more, as well as many of the classes found throughout the standard library, such as those found in the Queue, threading, and collections modules.

These types are then backed by Redis, allowing objects to be manipulated atomically over the network - the atomic nature of the methods implemented on objects in HOT Redis is one of its core features, and many of these are backed by `Lua`_ code executed within Redis, which ensures atomic operations where applicable.

The name HOT Redis originally stood for "Higher Order Types for Redis", but since the implementation doesn't strictly fit the definition, the recursive acronym "HOT Object Toolkit for Redis" should appease the most luscious of bearded necks.

HOT Redis was drawn from the infrastructure behind the `kouio RSS reader`_, a popular alternative to Google Reader.


Installation
============

The easiest way to install ``hot-redis`` is directly
from PyPi using `pip`_ by running the following command::

    $ pip install -U hot-redis

Otherwise you can download and install it directly from source::

    $ python setup.py install


Usage
=====

Each of the types provided by HOT Redis strive to implement the same method signatures and return values as their Python built-in and standard library counterparts. The main difference is each type's ``__init__`` method. Every HOT Redis type's ``__init__`` method will optionally accept ``initial`` and ``key`` keyword arguments, which are used for defining an initial value to be stored in Redis for the object, and the key that should be used, respectively. If no key is provided, a key will be generated, which can then be accessed via the ``key`` attribute::

    >>> from hot_redis import List
    >>> my_list = List()
    >>> my_list.key
    '93366bdb-90b2-4226-a52a-556f678af40e'
    >>> my_list_with_key = List(key="foo")
    >>> my_list_with_key.key
    'foo'

Note that, by default, HOT Redis attempts to connect to a Redis instance running locally on the default port 6379. If you wish to use a Redis instance on another host, port, or database number, you will have to explicitly create a HotClient instance and pass the client to each HOT Redis type you instantiate::

    >>> from hot_redis import HotClient, Queue
    >>> client = HotClient(host='myremotehost', port=6380)
    >>> my_queue = Queue(client=client)
    >>> my_queue.key
    'ff2479f3-d949-4c0c-ad28-0b052e75d7d1'
    >>> my_queue.put('Hello, world!')
    >>> my_queue.get()
    'Hello, world!'

Once you've determined a strategy for naming keys, you can then create HOT Redis objects and interact with them over the network, for example here is a ``List`` created on a computer we'll refer to as computer A::

    >>> list_on_computer_a = List(key="foo", initial=["a", "b", "c"], client=client)

then on another computer we'll creatively refer to as computer B::

    >>> list_on_computer_b = List(key="foo", client=client)
    >>> list_on_computer_b[:]  # Performs: LRANGE foo 0 -1
    ['a', 'b', 'c']
    >>> list_on_computer_b += ['d', 'e', 'f']  # Performs: RPUSH foo d e f

and back to computer A::

    >>> list_on_computer_a[:]  # Performs: LRANGE foo 0 -1
    ['a', 'b', 'c', 'd', 'e', 'f']
    >>> 'c' in list_on_computer_a  # Works like Python lists where expected
    True
    >>> list_on_computer_a.reverse()
    >>> list_on_computer_a[:]
    ['f', 'e', 'd', 'c', 'b', 'a']

The last interaction here is an interesting one. Python's ``list.reverse()`` is an in-place reversal of the list, that is, it modifies the existing list, rather than returning a reversed copy. If we were to implement this naively, we would first read the list from Redis, reverse it locally, then store the reversed list back in Redis again. But what if another client were to modify the list at approximately the same time? One computer's modification to the list would certainly overwrite the other's. In this scenario, and *many* others, HOT Redis provides its own Lua routine specifically for reversing the list in-place, within Redis atomically. I wrote in more detail about this in a blog post, `Bitwise Lua Operations in Redis`_.

Data Types
==========

The following table is the complete list of types provided by HOT Redis, mapped to their Python counterparts and underlying Redis types, along with any special considerations worth noting.

==================  ============================  ==========  ===============
HOT Redis           Python                        Redis       Notes
==================  ============================  ==========  ===============
List                list                          list
Set                 set                           set
Dict                dict                          hash
String              string                        string      Mutable - string methods that normally create a new string object in Python will mutate the string stored in Redis
ImmutableString     string                        string      Immutable - behaves like a regular Python string
Int                 int                           int
Float               float                         float
Queue               Queue.Queue                   list
LifoQueue           Queue.LifoQueue               list
SetQueue            N/A                           list + set  Extension of ``Queue`` with unique members
LifoSetQueue        N/A                           list + set  Extension of ``LifoQueue`` with unique members
BoundedSemaphore    threading.BoundedSemaphore    list        Extension of ``Queue`` leveraging Redis' blocking list pop operations with timeouts, while using Queue's ``maxsize`` arg to provide BoundedSemaphore's ``value`` arg
Semaphore           threading.Semaphore           list        Extension of ``BoundedSemaphore`` without a queue size
Lock                threading.Lock                list        Extension of ``BoundedSemaphore`` with a queue size of 1
RLock               threading.RLock               list        Extension of ``Lock`` allowing multiple ``acquire`` calls
DefaultDict         collections.DefaultDict       hash
MultiSet            collections.Counter           hash
==================  ============================  ==========  ===============

.. _`redis-py`: https://github.com/andymccurdy/redis-py
.. _`Redis`: http://redis.io
.. _`Lua`: http://www.lua.org/
.. _`kouio RSS reader`: https://kouio.com
.. _`pip`: http://www.pip-installer.org/
.. _`Bitwise Lua Operations in Redis`: http://blog.jupo.org/2013/06/12/bitwise-lua-operations-in-redis/
